The Architecture program was started at JSS Polytechnic for women, Mysore in the academic year 1983-1984 to facilitate the architectural   education at diploma level. We  started  the  diploma  program  in  architecture  with  the  intake  of  20 and later  the  intake  was  enhanced  to  30 meet  the  growing  demand. The  institute  takes  very  special  care  in  selecting  students  for  admission  to  various  academic  programmes  based on  the  merit  with  the  objective  of  providing  better  technical  education. The  programme  focuses  in  training  the  students  for  acquiring  the  skills  on  drafting  and  design  development  of  various  types  of  buildings according  to  user  requirement. During  the  course  of  study , the  students  are  made  to understand  the  design  concepts  adopted  in  ancient  and modern  buildings.

Vision

To create globally and intellectually competent, professionally skilled, ethically strong, morally Upright, socially responsive, culturally tolerant professionals.

Mission

Imparting Knowledge with Academic Excellence by incorporating competitive curriculumand to make students excellent Designers and Professionals, so that they chart out their ownpath of success and possess perfection in their endeavors.
Develop professionally skilled and innovative planners, designers, constructors and operators of society’s economic and social engine.
Creating learning environment with technological orientation to maximizeIndividual potential.
To ensure, students of all ability levels are well equipped to meet the contemporary challenges ofArchitectural education, profession and life.
PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES

PEO - 1

 To educate students in the fundamental principles of architecture.

PEO - 2  

To challenge students to develop the ability to use architectural principles in

analyzing and solving problems of practical importance in the built environment

and society at large.

PEO - 3  

To educate students about the need for lifelong learning and professional development

after diploma programme.

PEO - 4

Educating students in skills and knowledge required to improve the quality

of the built environment on both national and international level.

PROGRAMME  OUTCOMES

PO - 1

Basic and Discipline specific knowledge:

Apply knowledge of basic mathematics, science and engineering fundamentals and

engineering specialization to solve the engineering problems.

PO - 2

Problem analysis:

Identify and analyse well-defined engineering problems using codified standard methods.

PO - 3

Design/ development of solutions:

Design solutions for well-defined technical problems and assist with the design of

systems components or processes to meet specified needs.

PO - 4

Engineering Tools, Experimentation and Testing:

Apply modern engineering tools and appropriate technique to conduct standard tests and

measurements.

PO - 5

Engineering practices for society, sustainability and environment:

Apply appropriate technology in context of society, sustainability, environment and

ethical practices.

PO - 6

Project Management:

Use engineering management principles individually, as a team member or a leader to

manage projects and effectively communicate about well-defined engineering activities.

PO - 7

Life-long learning:

Ability to analyse individual needs and engage in updating in the context of technological

changes.