The Dept. of Apparel Design and Fabrication Technology was established in the year 1984-85 to provide the creative avenue which an individual requires.

The Apparel Design & Fabrication Technology Programme aims at educating individuals to be creative and responsible designers who will be competent to handle diverse areas of need/ situations in today’s, highly competitive and diverse, Apparel Design Industry.

The Apparel Design Programme commences with a foundation programme in design. Area specific inputs begin in the first semester gradually increasing in complexity as the programme advances. Skills and conceptual abilities are also developed through project-based learning wherein students are individually guided and encouraged to pursue and develop their own creative abilities.

The program enables the students for careers in apparel and soft goods design and development. The syllabus includes Apparel Construction, Patternmaking, Textile Designing  and Computer Aided Design. Fashion designers use their creative and technical skills to design products, develop patterns, monitor quality control and assurance and coordinate sourcing activities. Students who are creative and technologically savvy have an advantage in today’s global fashion industry.

On completion of the course, students can choose from diverse employment opportunities in the industry such as – Assistant Designer, Production Assistant, Fabric Specialist, Trend Manager and Assistant Manager of Quality Assurance, Costume Designer for Film/ Theatre, Bridal Designer, Illustrator, Pattern Maker, Stylist, Retail Merchandiser, Visual merchandiser and CAD Designer. Pursue higher Education- BSc FAD, MSc etc.

Vision:

“Offer professional programs and offering to enable, empower and inspire to fulfill their aspirations to the best of their ability”.

 Mission:

“Enhancing value such as style and research, creative and innovation, technology andcraftsmanship, the skill to merge many spirits into a harmonious balance”.

“Adopt unique blend of fashion designing and management skills and mould them as complete professionals with knowledge, skills and competencies enabling them to be socially responsible entrepreneurs to meet the diverse demands of the fashion industry through research and development.”

Program Outcomes :

Basic and Discipline specific knowledge: Apply knowledge of  basic designing, pattern making and apparel construction for fashion industry.
Problem Analysis: Identify target consumers, study economic conditions, standard of living and design the garments as per their need.
Design / Development of solutions: Specify and design the styles for advanced garments, analyse and evaluate methodology and create mass and high fashion garments.
Modern tools, experimentation and testing: Select advanced industrial sewing machine, CAD software’s, Modern cutting techniques needed for modern methods of production.
Best practices for society, sustainability and environment: Work in team using artistic endeavours and environment to achieve project objectives.
Project Management: Analyze modern management and communicate various apparel construction techniques to complete the project.
Life - long learning: Pursue lifelong learning as a means of enhancing the knowledge and skills. Recognize the professional and personal responsibility of designers to the community.
Program Educational Objectives:

Apparel Design and Fabrication Technology students will contribute to the Apparel Industry as Designers, Merchandisers, CAD Designers, CAD Pattern Makers, Textile Designers, Knitwear and Quality Controllers.
Diploma holders will pursue lifelong learning process as a means of enhancing the knowledge base and skills competence to contribute to the improvement of their profession and community.
Diploma holders will be committed to the improvement of Business communities while maintaining high professional ethical standards..