The Jagadguru Veerasimhaasana Peetha was established in the 11th Century A.D. at Sutturu by Adi Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeshwara Shivayogi Mahaswamiji. Sutturu is a village in Nanjangud taluk, Mysuru District in Karnataka. It is about 28 km from Mysuru city, in the south east direction.

The Peetha with its high ideals has been making remarkable contribution in religious, social, educational and economic spheres in the state and across the country. It is striving for social development by responding to the community needs. It strongly believes that, unless the problems of the socially backward communities and the poor are taken care, there will not be social development. With this objective, the math has initiated several programmes, while at the same time living up to its principle of “work is worship” and is engaged in raising public awareness on issues of social concern.

The establishment of the Samskritha Paathashala by the 22nd Pontiff Sri Shivarathreeshwara Mahaswamiji who was popularly known as the Mantra Maharshi is a landmark in the history of the Sree Math. When the 23rd Pontiff Jagadguru Dr. Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Mahaswamiji came to Mysuru in 1926 to pursue higher education, he observed that many rural students were in need of food and shelter. He gave them shelter at his own place and this marked the beginning of offering education to poor students. In 1942, a hostel was established and offered free food and hostel facilities for poor rural students. This marked Sree Math’s first step in the field of development of the society.

Instead of making students come to cities for education, Jagadguru Dr. Sri Shivarathri Rajendra Mahaswamiji thought of starting educational institutions in rural areas. In order to make this possible, he started Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeshwara Mahavidya-peetha in 1954. In order to implement the educational programs, it was registered under the Societies’ Registration Act 1960, vide: Reg. No. 12/1962 on 17-07-1962. With the untiring efforts of His Holiness Jagadguru Dr. Sri Shivarathri Rajendra Mahaswamiji, the Vidyapeetha has witnessed enormous growth in the field of education.

JSS Mahavidyapeetha which took its first step in the field of education with the starting of a high school has now forayed into Crèches, Primary schools, High schools, Pre-university and Degree Colleges, Law, Engineering, Medicine, Dental Sciences and Pharmacy and has thus provided all classes of the society easy access to educational opportunities. Now, the JSS University, Mysuru (Deemed to be University) has been started and Medical, Dental and Pharmacy Colleges at Mysuru and Ooty are brought under its control since 2008.

A young child who joins a JSS Institution seeking education may go on to become a scientist, or an engineer or a technologist or a doctor or a philosopher. Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeshwara Mahavidyapeetha thus has all the facilities that shape the youngster into a good citizen of the country.

Under the leadership of the present pontiff, the 24th Peethadhyaksha, His Holiness Jagadguru Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Mahaswamiji, the Mahavidyapeetha has not only established educational institutions in places where necessary, it has also made sure that all these institutions impart quality education. Engineering, Medical, Dental and Law colleges run by JSS are reputed to be the best educational institutions of their kind in the state and country. Apart from formal and vocational training, a training institute for Civil Services Examinations (JSSTICE) and Jana Shikshana Samsthans have also been established as the Mahavidyapeetha has realized the need for continuing education.